Banas yen alright do you want me to use
a pseudonym for you or not use your real
name at all but ok but I I have some
experience with crazy vegans in the
movement tracking me down and
threatening to kill me and this kind of
thing I hope you never had this
experience anyway whether whether this
is your experience or not you've just
gotten back from attending a somewhat
famous of vegan activism and animal
rights conference
this is hosted by the University of
California Berkeley correct if I know
that a lot of people who are the idea
organisation belongs to direct action
everywhere right but I don't know under
what name they actually organized the
conference ok most of it takes place on
the grounds of the University
ok so that realize I thought it was a
University of California event that just
happened to have a lot of people from
direct action everywhere because direct
action everywhere you know they're
really based in Berkeley but you know
obviously it makes sense if in fact it's
organized by derived action every one
happens to be at University California
ok it may be it may be they could be
possible at this point
I never has any of the particulars about
the the whole event was organized ok so
in terms of what you could see uh I know
that the right action if we were a big
part of it
Wayne's Young was there and so on when
Sean actually I I actually speak Chinese
so the HS sound is not SH there it's
it's not correct check everybody over
there Chung so I'm assuming that when
Chong goes by so this is a this is a
pattern this is a pattern in vegan
activism Gary front coa prefers to
pronounce his name
gary Francie own right so yeah Wayne
Young prefers to pronounce his name
Cheung I guess but it's
not correct Chinese and France theone is
not connected to tell you so I don't
know that's what he prefers but maybe
he's giving up we pronounce it the right
way yeah maybe I'm gay I'm guessing
Wayne doesn't speak Chinese you know no
shade I mean you know I don't speak
Hebrew and I don't want to speak Hebrew
you know I have Jewish ancestors but I
choose not to speak Hebrew I understand
those those are decisions we all got to
make but yeah you know growing up
Canadian you know definitely within
Canada within Toronto you're always
supposed to make an effort you know if
someone's québécois you pronounce the
name in a French way you know so my name
is Mazar not mazzard but you know I'm
not fussy about it be normally growing
up in Canada you have a little bit of
sensitivity to those things anyway yeah
but as you can imagine I'm open-minded
so like when I lived in Laos
no when I lived in Laos I had a low name
at the office I was ice on which is or
it's a name that's kind of funny to
explain because it sounds like a
communist code name it's like big
brother ass it sounds like you're
working inside anymore you said the
government I was working for the
Communist Party because everything there
is does they like that they like that
nickname and then at another team which
was just the white elephant in a wild
language of course that was that wasn't
that figured one but in that same way
each of the languages have studied I've
normally taken a name in the local yeah
I go by I go by eyes'll that's what I
live by but yeah it was funny when I
first moved to the South of France when
I moved to Perpignan in the South of
France everyone knew the name Azhar that
was a normal name there for the first
time books somewhere but yeah sorry I
know a big deal but I just said it's
part of the part of the kind of cultural
sensitivity training you get coming up
in Toronto okay so the main speaker I
guess was then Wayne Chung no okay so
just tell me in terms of okay it was a
full week so and it was a cool really
full full of workshops and trainings and
there were a lot of speakers actually
Glenn Greenwald was there oh wow and he
was the keynote speaker for the
conference casually
a few other people whose names I don't
quite remember James asked me was there
every prison yeah earthling head that
was their very prison that vegan couple
whatever hmm yeah yeah yeah yeah they've
improved a lot over the last two three
they've improved a lot the quality of
their show was improved in the last two
three years old say yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah the gave a big speech on what I
think the same day at Lynn greenwalt he
gave give a speech they also gave a
speech when we did a funeral for some
animals something I think pretty often
where we made a very big ceremonial
march through the streets of Berkeley
and we buried some animals on the lawn
in front of the how do you say that city
oh yeah
and he gave a pretty rousing speech at
that moment but everybody else ization
had their time to shine and said I think
he was dealing a lot with background
organization for many of the activities
that we were doing during the including
the the big open rescue at the so I did
I did read about this somewhat
ceremonial open rescue project so let me
just ask given that 2018 has been a very
dramatic and tumultuous year for direct
action everywhere would you say that
there was any criticism of DXE or any
events that were you know critical of
more may be reflecting on successes and
failures what went well what didn't go
well you know what I mean in this sense
there was not a lot of reflecting on I
think they were the whole the whole
conference was very much milder than
what was being
kept in mind with that we're here for
the animals so yeah
during this conference you know the
please need up to people make contacts
to have fun learn but always keep in
mind that we're here for the animals I
was aware I honestly at one point I
didn't know if I was going to go anymore
but since my plane ticket was already
you know reserved and not only a door a
room was a resort
I decided to attend anyway and but I
looked at the criticisms of DXE and I
looked at the answers yeah I have to say
that most of the answer that had been
given to me
sound transparent and sound like their
conscience that they've made mistakes
and I mean this is what these are things
that be freely admit they've made
mistakes in the past that they've
learned from it and then they've changed
some of the ways they're doing things
and from what I've seen at the
conference I would add to agree with
that I don't mean to say that I'm not
uncritical of the extra anymore but from
what I've seen at the conference they I
mean I've been accused of racism in a
move oh yeah I did not see anything else
no other conference no yeah look I mean
you know III I've heard those claims
also and you know I think I have got
twenty videos criticizing DXE on my
channel I've never once you know
substantiated or dealt with those
complaints I mean the only thing that's
interesting with that it shows some of
the challenge of having a social media
based form of activism in the 21st
century in one of the people what he
said to me his complaint was he felt
that ethnic minorities were not getting
their videos onto the main YouTube page
and they weren't getting posed on the
Facebook page but I mean I'm sure a lot
of people feel that way like people do a
demonstration and then they complain
well somebody else's demonstration is on
the Facebook page on the YouTube channel
and not mine so I just say beneath the
issue of racism per se it seemed to me
instead a lot of those complaints were
about control
of promotion and social media platforms
which is you know something worth
thinking about in a different sense but
isn't isn't really racism azide racism
doesn't seem to me the problem with the
EXCI I've made many videos about the
problems I don't think that's one of
them yeah social media I think that they
really want to concentrate their birdly
team wants to concentrate Derek their
social media progressed on virtue and
every other place is I think their own
media presence so deal with it if you
don't get I can understand that if
people feel like you don't get enough
recognition from you know birthday which
is probably seen as the central right
the core of the FC maybe but frankly I
don't think so I mean no way again what
I've observed I don't know it's their
actual tactics or any or anything like
that but I think they really really
really want to concentrate on Berkeley
because I think they want to really have
political impact locally yes in Berkeley
in San Francisco area maybe in all of
California like they can do and I think
that's what they're really concentrating
their efforts on the actual political
change yes yeah they've been open about
that in terms of their most recent
manifesto document that they're trying
to build a vegan community in Berkeley
California specifically anyway look we
get the critic this is the purpose of
this video is not really to criticize
protection of work just because I
already have now somebody on earth sorry
to say for people who don't know
watching this other link below the
channel I have a whole playlist of
videos but I do think for people who
signed up people who joined exe just a
couple of years ago it is a big change
because it used to be in the past that
they were supposed to be a decentralized
non hierarchical global network and
they've become the exact opposite
they're a hierarchy led by one man they
have a center the you know which is this
one place in Berkeley and you know so if
you support the XE that's now what it's
all about that's the exact opposite of
what
but we're joining for just two years ago
say so short time ago they've changed in
that respect too yeah I see that
yeah Wayne probably as a large presence
in the organization I think that's
undeniable but I think that there's a
lot of place for input from the other
members of the core team yeah
more than what people I think because
what I see okay
I'm not here to just praise DXE because
as I said I'm not on critical of the
organization but I was actually
impressed by what I saw sure there so
but I you know some of the criticisms
about the geeks in being cult-like or
things like that I I really didn't see
much of that and I really I think of
course Wayne is important in the
organization but I don't think that the
whole thing he just turns around here I
mean the guy could go to prison yes well
we'll see what happens yeah everything
that's over he's well over 60 years the
other maybe maybe he'll be pardoned by
Donald Trump Donald Trump likes to
pardon celebrity cases so look the other
question asked when they were founded
DXE put a lot of emphasis on a sort of
new and academic approach they claimed
that their methods were based on social
science research and at the beginning
they made an effort to do that so this
conference to what extent would you say
it was academic in that sense was
talking about social science research or
research into what's effective and
what's not that's why I want to ask
about them being self-critical what's
working what's not and I don't know to
what extent was it men of action
I don't know what what's the alternative
non academic I mean you know really best
you know there was a lot for every every
you know I'm time slot there were maybe
three or four workshops that could be
offered so
I did not extend the most advanced ones
I don't know that there was a lot of you
know a lot of pure rising going on yeah
there was a lot of it in private
conversation between between attendings
right there was a lot of that a lot of
really great conversations had with
people who attended I mean it's really
great to be a vegan event where entire
species of event I mean where
everybody's talking about something else
other than food yeah right yes the
really core focus is on most methods of
nonviolent protest like workshop on
Qingyun non-violence yeah and there were
other other such workshops
most people don't know he's talking
about the the method of non-violence
practiced by dr. Martin Luther King jr.
so yeah exactly I think that's really
where do you want to orient this about I
mean I think they want to really bring
out bring out the empty species to the
forefront ideals and I think that they
chose a purely compassionate nonviolent
method of protest to do that and that's
what that's what I if I had one great
take so given that a lot of it's about
methods do you think a new method came
out of this like just to give an example
within the last one year there's been a
lot of excitement about the cube of
truth protests you know so I mean what
were those the kind of discussions as to
what extent is cube of truth effective
or to what extent should you try you
know the old-fashioned exe disruptions I
mean they used to run on to baseball
pitches they used to interrupt baseball
games they used to be there their method
you know this kind of thing running in
restaurants yeah they really wanted
everybody to have a taste of every kind
of approach that's okay being
mainstreamed right now so right
disruptions cubes of truth good
old-fashioned marching right and open
risky and I think that the real goal is
to have all of these things work
together right because not these forms
of protest all have different goals
right disruptions are not meant to turn
people vegan they're meant to make
people aware that there's a problem in
society and there's this question it's
there to raise consciousness of the
issue cubes of tree or more like are
where you're trying to do some you know
one-on-one convincing of people and well
the other methods are not don't have
anything you to and I think for me one
thing that's interesting I don't know if
you've heard Wayne say this I've seen in
writing I've also seen him on YouTube or
in recorded lectures saying this he said
that his his journey towards direct
action everywhere started when he lost
patience with baking cookies and making
muffins and giving them out and you know
actually my journey to vegan activism is
going the exact opposite way I've just
enrolled in making college I'm learning
how to bake I actually think baking
bread baking pie is whatever I think
actually you know cuisine centered
activism in terms of outreach and
getting people interested I'm more
convinced than ever that that is a good
way to to reach people and start the
conversation I agree to make make them
aware that you don't have to kill
animals now the contest is in terms of
the direction Wayne went in so rejecting
cookie-based
activism or you know bacon is that okay
I think I've heard what he said I'd say
he were jests he does reject cookie
cookies and what-have-you
anyway that's why he got into this train
with disruption being is his method um
but really his focus increasingly is
so-called open rescue now I do I did
read the article you sent me so the
article about this this protest they had
at the end of the conference sort of
celebratory uh protest and there's the
possibility again of people going to
jail and being arrested for it now I
just know so one interesting thing with
this particular protest in the state of
California there is a law but I would
call it more of a legal guideline that
if there is an animal that is starving
or lacking water people outside have the
right to break in in order to provide
that animal with water or food but it
actually says in the law the with the
animal remaining in confinement exact
yeah it doesn't give you the right to
actually steal the animal or take the
outside it gives you the right to go
inside and provide it with food and
water and then leave yeah so just note
they they even though they raise this
law actually what they're doing is
illegal they're stealing the animals and
not giving them back yeah exactly yeah
[Music]
it's no way to see it okay no not abort
okay recently they did an open rescue
where we're being rescued three dots
from a place where they do experiments
on dogs okay and Julie and she's blind
and there's this video that they make
during the conference they had a VR the
other VR experience of the rescue so
they film the entire rescue operation in
VR and when you're in the when you're
visualizing the the rescue
you've got Wayne they're explaining to
you what's going on but you can see
everywhere everywhere they went inside
you can't see
personally I can tell you that if I had
been there I would not have come out
empty-handed
yeah that's how powerful it is the
conditions in the lab are so terrible I
mean yeah the conditions the lab work
right and I nobody deserves to enjoy
this I mean I realized that those animal
that there is you are you know about at
symbolic value but the other act is
you're actually helping you know someone
escape or horrible conditions and get
the care they deserve so that's that's
why I know according to the law these
fields running that's undeniable
according to the law but you know the
the problem with what they say in
activism is that unjust laws hey look
I'm a nihilist so I mean I don't
these are distinction that I really
don't trade in I mean for me it's about
doing the best you can and in a
democratic but for me in a democratic
society like Canada the United States I
can do better than this I think I have
better options than breaking the law and
so on I think you know I talked to one
activist in China where you don't have
the right to protest and there's no
democratic process there's no way to
approach government and the the options
for vegan activism in China are much
much more narrow and constrained they're
largely limited to working inside
restaurants and you saw the way to
respond to that but I just be honest you
I really don't sympathize with the
law-breaking element that this approach
and I mean you know a guy like Roger
Yates sorry I hope him getting his name
right but there was guy who went to
prison for some time because his
activist group they got into destroying
fur you know fur in fur shops and you
know I think a lot of vegans can
sympathize with that but I mean where if
you're gonna if you're gonna steal fur
or steal leather or you know go into
shops and destroy fur what he actually
ended up yeah yeah
okay we stealing and destroying yeah
inanimate objects and freeing somebody
yeah I do see a difference I see that
the the approach of doing an open place
and in a really non-violent mindset I
think takes a lot I mean right
personally I might not do it ever I
don't know if I can criticize people who
do do it because I felt right yeah I
understand you felt an emotional pole to
it right remember I fed the emotional
pole so and when we did that protest the
industrial farm I mean I'm just I'm just
so grateful that something like that
because it was huge and it was symbolic
right and I think it's it's going it's
the sort of action that could change the
course of things I think and while I I
don't approve of every method of
activity but I think that many of those
many methods can work together I mean
you need restaurants you have you need
bakeries but I think at the end of the
day you will meet in civil disobedience
I think that's that's going to be a
requirement to make things go forward
well when you break into a lab and
interrupt research is underway
theoretically it could be research into
curing cancer but theoretically could be
research into making a shade of lipstick
slightly more red you know it could be
something like this but neither case the
the company doing the research they're
in a position to say oh this was a six
million dollar research project and you
interrupted it in validating the results
so now you and your organization are
liable for six million dollars with the
damage so apart from the criminal act
there are just simple damages legally
speaking where you're reliable for the
cost of the damages so I mean even if
what you're saying were true which I
don't I don't agree with but I already
have other videos saying that I think in
terms of the cost-benefit analysis but
just say like let's say we've got a
budget of six million dollars which some
organizations have peda People for the
Ethical Treatment they have six million
dollars you know what what are we gonna
do with six million dollars in ten years
of our lives I think we can do better
that's my general feeling on this
but look what this admin said DXE
doubtless has been a lightning rod
that's brought together talented people
and I hope we get to see some some new
talent and new inspiration coming out of
it you know I've talked to a lot of
disillusioned people who you know got
their hearts broke with DXE and I've now
bitter ex members of the group I've
touched a lot of people who felt that
way about the abolitionist movement with
Gary Fran coa and of course I've talked
to people who felt that way about
lifestyle activism you know freelee and
durianrider so it is interesting we've
been through a period of time when
veganism has been rapidly kind of
shedding its skin you know in the sense
of a snake shedding its skin and taking
on taking on new directions but look I
mean fundamentally I'm glad to hear that
a bunch of people got together and we're
talking about you know how to make that
that change happen and in Berkeley
because I met people that I'm going to
be able probably stay in contact with
for years to come grid and whatever
direction active influence I was going
to be able to you know learn from you
people all the time what we're saying
about the possibility of maybe being
sued for millions of dollars don't
people don't see is that usually DXE are
very very very well prepared before they
do something they know everything they
have to know about the place they get
the the they get
legal advice and in the case of the open
rescue we did in Petaluma they
petitioned the City Hall before him they
petitioned the animal control groups
beforehand they did lots they did months
of background work before doing actually
doing what we did yeah so they're not
doing this you know they're not being
capricious about it my son right or
they're not doing it out of out of the
blue so this is the kind of forethought
that makes me more hopeful that these
methods can work okay look what that
have been said I just point out by
contrast they did recently have a naked
woman lying in a pile of poo I think she
was wearing a bikini
you know I they run into restaurants and
showed you know we run into a butcher
shop and say why do you kill the pig
kill me instead they they have had a lot
of emotionally overwrought and seemingly
very poorly planned activism so you know
what you're saying about this event may
be true but they were associated with a
lot of really low-grade poorly planned
stuff from my perspective I know I know
I'm not saying I'm not saying it was
against her will they try stuff but even
that's done took a lot of preparation
beforehand try to get a truck full of
poo no glitch okay great so let's wrap
we're coming up in a half an hour I'm
happy to talk to you but I'm gonna I'm
gonna stop recording after the video so
severe our video reflections on the
latest big conference coming out of
Berkeley California STDs gone hate my
drool with a bottle say
so we can pop [ __ ] at the head and pour
some on the floor cuz these [ __ ]
de-evolution